terminal commands.
There are some terminal commands that are used to help you manage your terminal more
efficiently.
No number one command that I have listed here is a clear command.
So clear commandment.
You log into your terminal your own certain commands,
you could just simply type clear to clear your screen.
The next command we have is the exit command as it comment allows you to exit out of
session a shell session.
If you have gone into different shell terminals,
you can exit out to come back to your roots sensation,
or you go as it out of the terminal that you have opened up or you could exit out of user
session.
So if you have become a different user by switching it to s you to a different user,
you could simply type exit to come.
Come back to your own session,
then The last one is the script.
Script is very helpful.
Command.
It's a commander stores terminal activities in a log file that can be named by a user.
You could run it and you could name anything that you want.
When that name is not provided by the user than the default file name is used and that is
typescript.
The name of the file.
So let's try all these three commands one by one in our Lennox machine.
Okay,
So when you run ls lt are who am I?
And bunch of other stuff.
Unless myself tr on the temp directory,
all that stuff that comes up so you could hit,
enter,
enter to bring your clear up your screen or simply his type clear.
This will clear your screen.
And many times when people run scripts,
the first thing they put it in the script is clear.
So the so the output will clear up everything on just green and then start from a new line
.
Then you have the next command is exit exited simply when you type exit,
it will exit out of your script if there is any script it was running before.
So I'm just gonna clear that I'm gonna type exit again one more time.
And there you go.
It has exit out.
I had a few scripts commands that were running previously.
That's why I couldn't get it out earlier.
But anyway,
the last one got me out.
I'll open up a terminal again.
And this time I'm typing exit again to exit out of the terminal.
So this will explain better how the exit works if you become a different user and that's a
S u spider you put in the past board.
Now you see you are logged in as spider.
What?
If you want to go back into your original session,
which is I absolve you.
Just type,
simply exit,
and you could be come back again to yourself.
So this is what the exit Command is mostly used for and the last command,
which I personally like,
because it records everything that you do on your session.
So what it does is when you run script,
do you have to specify the name I will put in a transaction Or,
you know what?
Log file activity.
Not Long and I had entered its His script started file is log dash activity dot law and
that lock file is created but in the same ah directly that you are in.
So and you run ls minus.
Lt are.
You'll see at the end it is.
It has created a file called log activity.
I just ran this command Ellis miner lt are this output off This command will be recorded in
that.
So if I go into other directors,
let's say at sea slash Ah,
cd,
slash etc Run ls minus lt are clear My screen type history,
command our type e w d.
And whatever that I am doing in my session everything is recorded in my log file Right now
you'll see if I do CD and if you go back to my home directory Thai pwd and I do ls minus.
Lt are You see the lawful activity.
The size is keep increasing because it is keep recording all the commands and all the
output that's coming from those commands.
So now if I wanted to be done with the script command all just simply type exit.
Once I do exit,
it will tell me Script done file is log while dash activity That law,
it means now it is not recording anything.
It has finished capturing the,
uh,
put off your session Now you could view it's clear the screen.
You could view that log activity which is right here,
and I do more on the file I had enter and you will see the first command when I ran after
running the script Command was ls my cell tr It recorded the command,
recorded the output off the command,
keep going.
And then I went to that seek of directory and I did ls my cell TRT reported everything I
did see all the commands or everything that I did while I was running the commands after
the script.
The reason that I used the script command most of time is because when I am troubleshooting
an issue or if I am creating some,
uh,
some tools or creating some scripts,
this would record everything for me.
So in case a month from now or a year from now,
and I wanted to perform the same tasks,
I don't have to look up the commands to execute that on the terminal.
I could just simply go into my log file activity,
and I will view that and remember Oh,
yeah,
these are the commands.
Iran.
Awesome.
It's like a logbook recording.
Ah,
way.
It records all your commands in a locked file